You've known it when before everything was knocked down, Loudon Square and all of that,
and now what did it feel like? They knocked it down?
Oh, well, you know what? Did you know the... Oh, what was he?
Dunleavy his name was. I think he was a councillor or something.
You know, if he was down in his poppins for my mother's and they'd say they were sorry after.
You know, they pulled them all down. They were sorry.
There were some wonderful houses. Loudon Square was glorious.
Oh, yeah. Well, I mean, my father used to say all the captains and when he came here,
there was all captains in that living in Loudon Square, you know, from the seaman.
The key people, the captains of Seaman.
And he said he held his steps going up to the houses before they pulled them all down.
With your extended family, all of the sports stars.
I mean, you know, it seems like every single one of them was a sports star.
That's it. That's it. But of course, I mean, we're the pride of this.
They couldn't play for Wales.
No.
None of them. I bet they were sorry after.
Well, yeah, you had talent like Johnny, who went north.
You know.
Yeah, you often look up my brother. He was good.
Yeah. He was good.
They said, because when he passed, a lot of them come down from Yorkshire.
I mean, none of them was given a eulogy, you know, in the church.
And he said, no one has passed him yet, the gold.
Johnny.
Yeah.
And they loved Billy Boston and Barry Wiggins.
Yeah. I mean, it's crazy.
They adore him up north and Cardiff don't even honour him.
No.
And there can only be a couple of reasons for that.
Of course.
Yeah.
So what about you and family? You said you had your boy Craig.
Yes.
So what about your family?
Craig passed away.
Right.
He was only 40.
I'm sorry to hear that, love. I didn't know.
Yeah.
Oh, everybody loved Craig.
He, you know, he had a good education, but he wanted to be in the airline.
You know.
He wanted to be in the airline.
And then he went in the airline after.
Yeah, and he liked it.
Right.
And everybody loved Craig.
Yeah.
Oh dear.
He's a.
There are sad times and there are good times.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
And Laura's my friend.
She said she was talking to you, wasn't she?
Yeah.
Yeah, I talked to her.
Was it yesterday?
Yesterday, I think it was.
Oh, yes.
Yeah, yesterday morning I talked to Laura.
But you were talking before that.
Only to arrange a time.
Oh, I see.
Yeah.
Because I went to Laura's wedding.
I was 14.
Yeah.
I was 14 when Laura got married.
I went to her wedding.
Yeah.
Oh dear.
But it's.
Laura's a good mate, yeah.
But so much has changed, doesn't it, kid?
I mean, in terms of what kids now have compared to what we might remember.
You know, our rule.
The things we could do, the things we were able to do.
You know, go out on the beginning of the day if it wasn't a school day.
And off you went all day.
Yeah.
I mean, I was talking to Eleanor.
And I was saying, when we went to school, you have to go.
You have to go in the snow.
None of them closed.
The schools didn't close like they do now.
Anything happened, the schools closed.
That one like that.
We used to come home, oh my god.
In all kinds of winds and weathers.
But now today, they closed it.
I could have snowed.
We used to go in the sky.
They never closed.
They closed.
That just meant playtime was more fun.
Yeah.
And then you'd come in crying.
Soaking wet.
Snowballs.
I know you're going to come in crying.
Yeah.
And even if you were the one who threw the first one.
Yes.
Did Laura tell us you worked in the colonial center?
Yeah, yeah, she did.
She did.
We were good kids.
I said, we never had a lot, but we were happy.
My mother always said that.
And then they used to say, oh, ma'am.
So and so and so and so.
They had bikes for Christmas.
And they sat near there.
Mama's slapping hands on the table.
She said, it's your bike.
Those people are going to eat.
She always threw that.
Mind you, oh, god.
We had a good upbringing.
There was five of us.
And then my father went to see it.
And then my mother used to take us all to the shelters.
In the night, you know, the head-in shelters.
Because you remember the Second World War.
You were younger.
Oh, yeah.
I was only 17.
I was seven.
When the war started, yeah.
What do you remember of it, Cain?
Everything.
The bombing and all things.
You know, we'd be in the shelter.
We knew we were going to eat, you know what I mean?
In the night.
And it was on Butte Road, all the shelters.
And then this, because Mama had five of us.
And I was just little.
And my mother had it on the lap.
The tears was running from my mother's eyes.
Aunt Juarez.
She was a bigot, that one.
I said, oh, Mama, I'll throw this water running on me.
Mama said she was thinking about, oh, what am I
going to do with all these bombs?
You know what I mean?
What am I going to do to my kids?
She said that.
And that's how I remember then.
And the woman next to my mother said,
oh, that's a ticket I'd love.
My mother said, oh, I don't smoke.
I said, let's smoke.
Oh, I'll throw it to you.
It'll calm your nerves.
So the next night, my mother said,
oh, I'll buy a packet of cigarettes.
I'll take the woman, you know, and I'm back.
You boy didn't want me back.
I'm also sorry my mother's smoking.
I think he hates him.
People used to think it was good for them.
But then when he was 80, the doctor said,
keep going through it.
I forgot what that doctor was there.
You know, because I've had chest and I've lunged
and I've had.
And he said, oh, Mrs. Freeman, you've got to.
You've got to stop smoking.
So she said, oh, yes, I will.
He said, you said that last time.
And anyway, she stopped.
She was 80.
And he said, oh, your chest and this and that.
Well, my mother didn't do bad.
She didn't pass as a 94.
But that was good going, wasn't it?
Yeah.
And she finished smoking when she was 80.
And then my father and me, dad used to go upstairs and smoke.
And I used to go in the kitchen.
And she'd say, look, I'm not spoiling your enjoyment
because I finished.
You know what?
After she finished smoking for a while, she said,
after the meal, she said, put it in the ashtray.
Oh, it's a laugh.
You see?
But once the ashtray is happy, it's a habit, she said.
Well, it kept going on and on and on for my mother.
Because you could smoke on the buses then.
And then we'd have the skinheads go to Langdonk on the bus.
You know, at the back.
And we'd have the skinheads going to Langdonk.
And she was 80 then.
And we got there and we said, oh.
And that was the last skinhead she had.
That was good going.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Just stopped just like that.
Yeah, but strong women.
Strong women.
Yeah.
I mean, my nan always used to say, the men can think,
but the women run the community.
That's it.
We just let the men pretend, she used to say.
Yeah.
Still true.
That's it.
What about the way, one of the things a lot of people
have talked about is manners and the way people have always
respected older people, auntie and uncle.
Oh, yeah.
Because a girl says we run, in my convenience again,
I wanted a job there.
She says, we call you, you got some auntie, haven't you?
I said, no.
I said, we knew her good.
And we didn't need to call her by her name.
And so we used to call her auntie.
Yeah.
So I said, oh, and she next to myself, gosh,
you got some auntie.
But I did that so we was, you know.
Yeah, it's respect, you know.
As a child, you couldn't call them by their first name.
No, no, no, no.
No.
Yeah, but as I said, nobody had loads of money or nothing
like that.
You know what I mean?
But you still have the good life.
Yeah.
When we were kids, yeah, my father went to sea.
And I always remember, Bill and Keith,
a fellow that was in charge, one of them, with the ships
and all, because he used to come up,
and he'd say, oh, John, this fellow can't go.
He said, would you take his place?
So dad said, well, I'm going to love it time.
And he said, we'll catch the train and so on.
So anyway, dad, I missed the train.
And he came back, and he got in touch with Bill.
And he said, I missed the train.
He said, I won't make it.
So it's a good job.
He never think of throwing that ship he would have been on.
Yeah.
That's just the way your luck runs sometimes, isn't it?
Yeah, he missed the train.
And then I said, oh, I'm telling him,
my I'm not catching the next one.
He couldn't have done it anyway.
He couldn't have gone.
He missed the boat.
And yeah, it blew up.
He said, we should be coming down
wherever the river was, the Pacific or the Atlantic or what.
And bombs would be, he said, they'd be shipped on fire
each side of him, you know, and they'd be going through.
Oh, God, he said it was terrible.
Because I know a lot of my friends off their father's.
Well, Laura was saying about her brother and.
Yeah, yeah.
Because my my granddad, he was from Barbados and he went.
He was on the ships all the way through the First World War.
He then he then became a miner
at just the beginning of the Second World War,
because my nan said, you are not going again.
Because you went, you live through one.
You'll never live through another.
She wouldn't let him go.
And it's typical, it's typical luck.
You know, you can't be a merchant seamen, which is hard enough life.
So what do you do? You become a miner.
Yeah, it gets you good enough, because in the world we.
Went to Aberadwe, number day.
Yeah.
And. Oh, God, I went to my mother and I came back.
A lot of us went.
I mean, it was you got more prejudice going into Cardiff
and once you were at the bay.
And I didn't know what to do, Laura, what I was when we were kids.
You know, because everybody's grandmother was white.
It's what I mean.
And everything mixed.
Oh, yeah, you didn't know until you went out to the,
you know, to the bay.
Yeah.
I mean, without the bay, without the bay, Cardiff.
I always say without the bay, Cardiff would have had no money.
Because it was the work of all of those seamen and their families
that made Cardiff rich.
Yes.
And yet they still look down on people.
Oh, yeah.
But of course, you didn't know until you went out to the bay.
You know.
I mean, I think I think that's why they knocked down all the houses.
Because it was like, oh, no, we don't want to.
We, you know, we're now we're now no longer need them kind of thing.
You know. Yeah.
But as the lazy said, yeah, the council, they could have done that.
Yeah. And that'd be worth money.
They were better.
They were better looking at some of the flats.
He said they were sorry.
Yeah. Desperately.
But they didn't do a map because they did them in other places.
Because I know I worked with this woman and
I say, oh, pretend I'm one of those places.
And she said they put a caravan in the yard.
Oh, they got it there. I don't know.
And they lived in there until they got their house.
Right.
Yeah, they could have done that.
You know, we're on the street.
Instead, you know, they knocked down they knocked down half of Butown and the bay.
And then they and at the same time, they knocked down Thompson Street and all of the docks around Barry.
In Barry. Yeah.
Just.
So, yeah, but yeah, but but that's that's the thing, isn't there?
It's like you and me having a conversation and immediately there's someone who crossovers our lives.
That's it.
You know, and that's that's something that's missing nowadays.
That, you know, if you you talk to anybody from the bay, you talk to anybody who's from from Barry,
particularly the merchant Siemens families and their lives will overlap.
You know, you know somebody or when I was a kid,
I used to go out with the boys from the bay all the time and and they'd come over the island and and.
Yeah.
They were good people.
Yeah, they were good.
They were good people and they were good days.
And that's all you could wish for, isn't it?
Really?
I know.
And when you're a kid, you don't understand how some kids got this or that, you know.
But oh, we had a good life.
Oh, God, they were fine of us.
And we had a good, good upbringing.
You said you couldn't talk, but you did.
Ha ha.
Ha ha ha ha.
Oh, crazy.
Yeah.
I bet you just caught me because I came in.
You didn't call this morning, did you?
No, no, no, no, no.
Somebody called when it was.
Someone has just passed away.
So maybe that was it.
Michael Michael dos Santos.
It is right then, isn't it?
Because I hear that this morning.
Yeah, I think he passed away.
It is right.
Yeah, he passed away.
Yeah, because somebody called me this morning.
So they said, go meet people there.
Just in case, you know.
Yeah, and that's what it that's what it was.
Oh, God.
Yeah.
The trouble at the moment as well is, although we can clap from the side of the road, we
can't have proper funerals.
No, no.
And one thing the Bay does and Bute Town does is proper funerals.
Oh my God, yes.
Because when my brother died and the kids were living in Holmen, he came back and people
come down from Yorkshire, you know, to the funeral.
And they said, we've never seen anything like it.
You know, because we went to the club.
Yeah, you know, we put on the, you know, the food and everything.
Oh my God.
People walking behind, you know, it's.
Yes.
But of course, that's the last time I've seen them.
Michael.
Yeah.
And I thought I laughed with him because he used to shave his head, you know, bald.
And his sister lived in Oddsworth Square and you had to go all the way up those steps,
you know.
So he came in and was in the shop and we were having a laugh and talking and he said, Oh
God, when he said those stairs, he said, when I came, he said, when I went to my sister's
because he said I come out of the shop, he said I had hair when I went in.
He was just bald.
He said it was a right moment, he said, I had hair when I came in.
And one of you that this morning, you have.
Yeah.
And my friends, they don't see nothing because they don't know if it's right or not.
You know, because you use these rumors, you know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, somebody else called me when I was filming the doc, doing the shopping.
But the thing is, the thing is, I always say the only memory you should have of people,
you know, it's those good moments.
Yeah.
You know, and I think that's why we celebrate a funeral.
Yeah, you should actually, you don't mourn their passing because we're all going to pass.
Yeah, of course.
And all you want is people to celebrate and remember the good times.
Right, I've taken up loads and loads of your time and I'm grateful for it.
I know, I've just been saying thanks for the cup of tea.
Well, it's a bad time, you had one.
And if you were a decent person, you'd have made me one by now.
But anyway.
Right, I'm going to go.
Thank you, Bill.
I'm really, really grateful, kid.
Get yourself a cup of tea.
Or better still, have a cup of coffee with some honey in.
Oh yeah, that's me.
I love my honey.
Yeah.
I eat honey when it's coming out of my mouth.
I'll tell you what, every morning, every morning, I have Weetabix or shredded wheat, right?
Yeah, I got a lighter.
And I put honey on it.
Oh, I love honey.
Oh, it's just.
Are you having a coffee?
Oh, yeah, I have.
You have honey in your coffee?
Yeah.
The doctor said to me, you're having too much sugar.
You shouldn't have sugar.
I said, OK.
So I put honey on things.
Yeah, that's why I never had, it's funny, from a kid, never had sugar in my tea.
Never had sugar in my tea, ever.
From a kiddie.
Yeah, because I didn't like it.
Yeah, they always had no sugar.
But loving people now don't like sugar in their tea, do they?
Yeah, but they have those sweetener things.
I'd rather have a spoonful of honey, honestly.
Oh, no.
I'd rather have a spoonful of honey.
I could taste sweetener.
I don't like it.
No.
In my coffee, I have honey.
Yeah.
And before I go bed, I always make a hot chocolate.
And I have honey in a drop of brandy.
I'll tell you what I've done for you today.
You're in lockdown and I've taken your mind back.
And you'll be thinking about that for the rest of tonight.
And other stuff will appear in your head.
And I'll tell you, you think of your mum and you'll start to smile.
And here you are again, you're doing it.
I'm never going to get a cup of tea here, Beryl.
Let me tell you, when we were kids,
I mean there was no televisions and all that then.
And we'd all be on the fire in the kitchen
and listening to the radio,
the stories on the radio.
Oh, it would be wonderful.
We didn't know nothing about televisions and all that.
When I was a kiddie.
Yeah.
I can remember when the first kid in our street in London,
we were the second family.
I've no idea where the telly was.
We were the second family.
I've no idea where the telly came from, so we won't go into that.
But we were the second family that had a telly in our street.
And when someone got a telly,
I'll tell you what, they regretted it because their house was never empty.
I know.
Well, we were like that.
Because there was only two families that had a telly.
There was our family, another family up the street.
And then my sister and her husband bought it for my mother.
There was only a little screen, black and white.
And this lady up the street used to come in.
And another one on the other side of the road.
You couldn't sit in your friend's room.
There was people in there.
I mean, my mum used to make a huge pot of spaghetti bolognese
on FA Cup final day.
Literally a huge pot because we had the telly.
And I'd be there with a group of my friends.
My brother Paul, who's three years older than me,
would be there with a group of his friends.
Doors open, I'm cooking, come in.
And that's the way it is.
And people don't get, that's the way it was in Barry.
That's the way it was in the bay in Bute Town.
Of course it was.
I remember going to dinner with somebody.
Because you never know.
What goes around comes around.
There's times when we didn't have anything on the table.
And someone else did.
And so you help someone, they help you.
And no one was embarrassed because someone had to ask.
That's the other thing I thought was good.
You didn't have to go any chance.
You best come and have some of the week, kid.
Because everybody knew I had no money.
Yes.
It's special.
It's a Christ card.
Yeah, but I'm ready now for my teeth.
You're going to blame me now.
That's not going to work.
I'm going to go.
Listen.
I'm going because you're never going to let me get off the phone.
I'm ready for it all.
I'm going before you.
I've got my tooth stuck in this cat.
I'll see you after lockdown, Beryl.
Okay, love.
Bye, love.
Take care.